(upbeat music)
- Hi everyone, welcome to another episode
of No Such Things A Fish,
where we were joined by the absolute legend
that is Nina Conti.
- That's right, Nina Conti,
if you're not aware of her,
is one of our great stand-up comedians,
but she is also one of the UK's only ventriloquists.
- She's absolutely brilliant, she's so smart,
she's so funny, she's been on QI packing the day,
but now she's come back to join us
and something very special.
- She has a movie out.
- That's right, it's called Sunlight
and it's now out on Prime for free,
so if you have a Prime account,
you should be watching it straight away.
- Absolutely, it's such a good film, I've seen it.
It's kind of a classic road trip movie,
but with a twist in that one of the characters
is like in a giant monkey costume.
Sounds weird, but I promise you,
I watched it, I absolutely loved it,
and I'm sure you will too.
- That's right, and if you want more monkey-ing from Nina,
she's even got her own podcast,
which she co-hosts with her monkey
that she does ventriloquism with,
it's called Nina and Monkey's Podcast.
It's everywhere where you get your podcast,
so check that out as well, but really the movie,
and I'm gonna be watching it tonight,
I'm so excited, that's the thing to check out,
it's called Sunlight and it's available now on Prime.
- Yes, one more thing to check out,
if you so desire is our Patreon,
you can go to patreon.com/clubfish
and you will find all sorts of amazing stuff on there,
but this week there's something very special
for everyone, even if you don't pay for it.
- That's right, so if you remember,
we had Olga Cock on the show a few weeks ago,
and as part of it, we were trying to brainstorm
the title of a big new movie,
so this was about the founder of GrubHub,
and the fact that he came up with it at school,
Olga came up with the name Doeboy,
but we asked you the listeners to send in
what you think the movie should be called,
and we made a video going through the process
of hearing the pitches from you, the public.
- Yes, so if you want to watch that incredibly,
well, quite painful 10 minutes and we went through,
tried to find a good name, it's very funny,
I watched it this morning,
The Fish Busters have done a brilliant edit on it.
You go to patreon.com/clubfish,
and when you go there, there is some stuff for everyone,
you don't have to sign up for any of the tears,
you will just see it, and this is one of those things.
- That's right, so do that now,
check out Nina's movie.
But for now, listen to her here on Fish.
Here we go, on with the show.
(upbeat music)
(bell ringing)
(speaking in foreign language)
(upbeat music)
- Hello, and welcome to another episode
of "No Such Thing As A Fish", a weekly podcast
coming to you from the QI offices in Hobern.
My name is Dan Schreiber, I am sitting here
with James Harkin, Andrew Hunter Murray,
and Nina Conti, and once again,
we have gathered around the microphones
with our four favorite facts from the last seven days,
and in a particular order, here we go.
Starting with fact number one, and that is James.
- Okay, my fact this week is that one
of the most important people in Income society
was the ventriloquist.
- Nice.
- That's incredible.
I mean, with that, with a puppet,
with not leaving their mouth,
we'll kind of ventriloquist.
- Not so much a puppet.
- It was, they were trying to throw their voice.
So this is something I read in Encyclopedia Britannica,
and it was about the Inca religion,
where they had a priest called the Yacaka,
who would tell the future with fire.
So they would set a fire, they would blow a pipe,
and the flames would bounce around,
and he would take some coca leaves,
and then he would supposedly summon the spirits,
and when they came in the smoke, or whatever, or in the fire,
he would start to divide the future,
say what's gonna happen, say what the leaders should do,
and a chronicler called Pedro Kiezer de Leon
said that they did it by ventriloquism.
- It sounds like a good act.
It was a rumor about the Oracle at Delphi
being a ventriloquist thing behind it,
but also that they're sometimes a sort of tube or a tunnel,
leading back from the mouth that somebody is speaking into,
like one of those things in the playground, where you...
- Yeah, I would think in Income society,
there are a lot of severed heads going begging, you know?
So you could have the puppets if you wanted to.
- Yeah. - But that wasn't a thing then, was it?
Ventriloquism when it started, wasn't to do with puppets.
It was projecting the voice to make people think
it was coming from somewhere else.
- So this is what this is projecting the voice,
so it's making you think that the voice
is coming from somewhere else.
- Exactly.
- But ventriloquy being a stomach speaking.
- Yes, so the Oracle at Delphi,
the story was put about that.
It felt like the voice was coming from either her stomach
or sometimes from her genitals.
Although those stories might have been written
by Christian's later who were trying to...
- And clever.
(laughing)
- Not always different things.
- But gastramancers also is a thing.
- Yes.
- I don't know whether any of this is true,
because I learned ventriloquism from Ken Campbell
who had no respect for the boundary
between truth and fiction.
But the way he told me was that gastramancers
would go into supposedly haunted house
and imbibed the spirit up through the genitals
and guide into the stomach.
And there they would soothe the angry spirit with chat.
- Oh, okay.
- And then walk away with it.
- I want and expel them outside the house.
- Yeah, who'd take them up?
- Would you fart them out, or?
- I think so.
- Outside.
- You do that outside.
- I mean who doesn't go outside to fart?
(laughing)
- Gastramancer was a thing.
- Definitely.
- It's all 2000 years ago.
It's all quite hard to tell now.
But supposedly noises made by the stomach
were thought to be the voices of the dead.
And the other word, I just really like it
'cause you said ventriloquism is a stomach talking,
isn't it, ventriloquism.
The other word, if you do the Greek, it's engastrid myths.
- Very nice to do that, that's good.
- So I like that all the original ventriloquists
probably were just people with IBS.
It was just roughly tumbling the going on over the time.
- Completely tumbling.
- Yeah, sort of.
- Be watching a lot of Whitney the Pooh.
(laughing)
- It's very difficult to imagine it.
I was going to think to do with the stomach.
I mean, we're definitely my throat
where I do my ventriloquism and my mouth, the stomach.
- There are a few different ways,
I mean, I'm not ventriloquist.
But I think there's one which is you're making a noise
and not letting your mouth move.
And there's another one which you make the sound
much quieter or louder.
So it sounds like it's coming from somewhere else.
- No, no.
- Like the little man in the box kind of thing, right?
- Yeah, I think this is more like that kind of ventriloquist.
- Okay, I think.
- Nina, did you ever do the, I'm talking to someone over there
or the voice is coming from your trouser pockets?
- I'm very bad at that, no.
I like a nice puppet to distract.
(laughing)
No, I've never been.
I think people that do that fool me.
I went to a ventriloquist convention
and the guy was doing that kind of calling Nina.
From miles away and I was looking around
and he said to me like, Matt, where do you think you are?
You're a ventriloquist convention.
That's what he do.
- Venthaven.
- Venthaven, yeah.
- Well, your documentary, which is, it's so good
if anyone wants to check out about the world
of ventriloquist.
- If someone's on the stage at Venthaven and they do a good act,
does the applause come from behind them?
(laughing)
- This is the amazing thing, right?
The reason ventriloquist works so well
is because humans are hardwired to, if you see a noise
and if you see something moving.
You're a noise.
You're onto something.
(laughing)
- If you hear a noise and if you see something moving,
then your brain just puts them together.
And that's because of that's useful, right?
If you see a rustling in the leaves
and you hear the rustling, then there's a tiger there.
You want to get out there sharp, yeah?
But the really interesting thing is that,
that misdirection can persist for about an hour
after you've seen a ventriloquist.
So if you see a ventriloquist
and they've got a puppet to their side,
your brain is decided that's where the sounds coming from.
And about an hour later, you'll speak to someone
and they're speaking to you
and you'll get confused about where the sounds coming from
'cause your brain hasn't worked it out yet.
- Interesting.
- And no one's really sure why that happens.
- Yeah, okay.
- And it's a bit like if you're on a train for ages
and you're moving and you're moving
and then you stop moving,
then your brain sort of, for a few seconds,
kind of can't work out that you're not moving anymore.
- Right.
- You know, when you walk onto an escalator
and it's not moving and you expect it to,
- Oh, there's a good point.
- It's all this kind of thing that your brain
just gets slightly tricked by the difference in moving.
- It feels like a good plot point for a movie
where you get someone to watch a ventriloquist
but then you deliver some information directly to their face
but it seems as if it's come from the person next to you.
So I think you're a dick.
- And they're like, good plot point.
- For Sandra.
- Good plot point.
They're working on now you see me for it.
The moment I believe, so very exciting.
- Try to work out how I can make use of this.
- Yeah, exactly.
Where can you put any on that?
- Do you ever do signings where people get confused
and talk to monkey instead of talking to you?
- Well, I can't do signings with monkey
because this is on my right hand.
(laughing)
And he can't hold his hand.
No, it's very, I mean, even I believe the sound comes out
of him in some way because I've done it for so many years
that if somebody's going to ask what would monkey say,
I feel like, well, let me go and get him
and then I'll be able to tell you which really is weird.
- Nina, in 2010 there was a sort of survey done
about full-time professional ventriloquist in the UK
and it was shockingly low.
15 full-time professionals.
- Yes.
- You're one of the 15 and apparently it might not even be
as much currently in 2026 because Nina's got rid of them all.
(laughing)
They were all attacked by a monkey.
- But that's pretty phenomenal, the sort of the industry
is sort of critically endangered, basically.
Like if you decide to quit.
- I think it is never going to die.
It's been through worse than this.
I mean, I think it's here for the long run.
For me, it was just like picking up the right pen
for making thoughts come out of my head.
And so it's not really, I don't know,
the thought of ventriloquism as being some,
ended the peer thing with a big wooden mannequin.
That might be gone.
But I think it'll keep coming.
- Yes.
- You guys used to run Inkins Society.
- I know.
- You used to be predicting the battles being won or lost.
- Through blowing up the lungs of a llama apparently.
- Oh yeah, not really.
- Inflating the lungs of a dead llama
and reading the shape of the veins.
The llama's had it so rough,
from what I read in Inkins Society.
- You think that's why llamas spit at you
whenever you see them.
Because they remember how bad a tree is if they live in Inkins Society.
- Nina, you mentioned the convention that you went to before,
which was the Vent Haven one.
And this is probably the most incredible thing
about the world of ventriloquism.
There is a museum where a lot of the dummies get donated
if, say, the person has passed away or left the industry.
And so there's a big house, the Vent Haven Museum,
where it's just stacked.
- That sounds absolutely terrifying.
- If you're actually, yeah, a lot of the neighbors
complain that sometimes they put the dummies
looking out the windows, down across them.
They ask for them to be, can you, I'm sorry, that's scary.
You've been inside, presumably, 'cause you've been there.
- Yeah, and it's a very unique atmosphere
'cause they're very uniquely bereaved
and very uniquely quiet, 'cause they shouldn't be quiet.
They had voices and they're never to talk again.
And so they seem really extra still
as having been animated.
And they've got these little pictures on them,
some of them, of them, onstage, mid-flow.
And so it does have a sort of ear-y hand in death,
all of that.
Some survived a shipwreck.
- Yes.
- And with the ventriloquist went down.
- Tragically, they were shouting over here, over here.
And they jumped over there, over there.
(laughing)
- Yes, there's some good story.
- That was, I think he was called William Wood,
the ventriloquist who died in that way.
- That shipwreck. - I think so, I believe so.
And four of his dummies washed up to shore much later.
And there's a lot of mystery about what happened to him,
were they killed by pirates, all that sort of stuff.
And yeah, so his dummies, either all or just a few
were in Ben Haven now.
- Did they become really big on radio, I think?
I remember that. - Yeah.
- When radio started, you got loads of vents on radio.
- Yes. - And obviously, you can't see,
like people who are listening to this at home,
they don't know that actually Nina's lips
haven't moved this entire episode so far.
(laughing)
But like, you wouldn't know, but because the acts were so good,
it didn't matter, really.
- Yeah.
- It's a character in a stooge.
It doesn't matter that you can't see the lips.
- They got mad ratings.
- I read that, so aren't she Andrews?
- No, yeah. - And Peter Brough, in the 1940s,
they got on the radio, as you said James,
12 million people tuning in.
I mean, it's crazy.
- My podcast doesn't get anywhere near that office.
- Is that where you would get any way
for a prime time show or was that a hugely marked,
I think that was only two channels, weren't there?
So, you know, whether it's a population of the UK
must have been kind of been much more than 30 or 40 million.
- You're absolutely right, I mean, it's crackers.
And I was reading a London review of books,
piece, all about Ventral Aquism, it was from 2000.
All I can find is this line that Peter Brough,
the keeper of Archie Andrews, used it
to spice up romantic weekends with his wife.
- Oh, no.
- I can find no further details.
I don't know what it means.
- Well, I think.
- Sounds very sexy.
(laughing)
- You could tell what it means.
- I'm not speculating.
(laughing)
- Is he the one who I think he made a transfer to TV
and then he got canceled because people could see
his lips moving?
- Not canceled.
(laughing)
- Not the current set.
- Yeah.
- Oh, 'cause he'd never learned.
- He probably did, but maybe he just wasn't
as good as people wanted him to be.
- Yeah, he'd let it go.
- When he hadn't needed it.
- It's true, there are some sounds which are especially
hard, right?
Anything which is.
- Plosive, yeah.
- Plosive, right.
- That is, but I presume there are ways
of getting around that.
- There are ways of getting around it.
But it's best not to fixate on them
if you're a young budding ventriloquist out there
to try not the numbers.
You're B, you can't say because you have to,
your lips have to meet.
So you replace that with a G or a D sound.
- Yeah.
- G or D.
And the techniques are that at the back,
you have your soft palate and you're back of your tongue.
And if you hump your tongue towards the soft palate,
you're making substitute lips in the back of your mouth.
And then if you sort of hold the air behind that
and then expel it, you'll get the birth sound.
- That's crazy.
You're making extra lips at the back of your mouth.
That's man.
I didn't, I'd never heard that that was how it was done.
- Well, yeah, and, but the main thing is not to worry
about your B's sounding like G's.
'Cause your main focus should be whether you're puppets
making people laugh.
- Right, yeah, yeah.
- All these things they mean a lot at the beginning
and then you know, I've never enjoyed a ventriloquist
that less because of the B's aren't very good.
- Do you guys come across Thomas Britain in your research?
- I know.
- He was an English charcoal merchant and concert promoter
and he was killed by a ventriloquist.
- Okay.
- Great.
- So you're throwing someone's voice to kill them.
You're throwing your voice.
- Shoot me.
(laughing)
- Yeah, what do you mean?
Shoot me.
- That's brilliant.
- Did he play on the idea that he was literally
the voice in his head?
- It wasn't quite that.
Basically there was a magistrate who was called
Justice Robe.
- It was great name for a magistrate.
But he was a bit of a practical joker and he knew Britain.
And he decided to hire a ventriloquist
to throw his voice pretending to be a spirit.
Telling him, "You're end is nigh and you're not going to heaven."
And he dropped to his knees and horror.
Thought it was a spirit and died from shock two days later.
- Oh, hell of a backfire on a prank, isn't it?
- Yeah.
- Well, I have to be very careful with these powers.
- Your powers.
- No.
(laughing)
(upbeat music)
- Okay, it's time for fact number two and that is Nina.
Well, I was reading Craig Brown's "Mam Darling"
about Princess Margaret.
And very surprisingly, we have Princess Margaret's birth
to thank for horoscopes and newspapers
and the modern day sort of horoscope.
What happened was when she was born, John Gordon,
who was the editor of the Sunday Express,
was looking for an angle on the way he would write an article
about her birth.
And he tried to get Cairo, who was an astrologer,
to write a prediction for her life.
He wasn't around.
I don't know what happened.
Someone else answered the phone, his name was Naila.
He managed to get the job of doing this.
And he did a rather good prediction for her.
And the article was a big success.
So then the editor of the Daily Express
commissioned him to do another one.
And he again managed to predict an airplane crashing.
It did.
It got lots of things wrong.
But anyway, these articles went down very, very well.
And then other newspapers looked at that
and we should do the same.
They hired their own astrologers.
And then it just exploded globally.
And so if he hadn't wanted this article to be about Margaret,
we wouldn't have this.
And people wouldn't be wondering what my week is going to be like
and reading this level.
That would be awful news for any told arc strangers, wouldn't it?
[LAUGHTER]
We should say Princess Margaret, for any international listeners
or younger ones, maybe, younger sister of the queen.
The true queen.
Absolutely.
The late queen.
You didn't no longer with us, yeah?
No longer with us.
For international listeners.
Queen Elizabeth II had a younger sister.
Whose name was Margaret?
Yeah.
Very much the queen's evil twin, I would say.
What did she say?
I would.
I don't think she stood a chance at that life.
No one in that family has a chance of being normal or in many cases
pleasant, but I mean--
Like, for instance, she was told who she was allowed to marry.
Wasn't she?
Yep.
Yes.
So there was a-- the Royal Marriages Act of 1772
said that because she was in line to the throne,
the queen had to allow her to marry or not marry.
Like, she had to say--
Oh, yes.
Can I marry this person, please?
And the queen had to say yes or no.
Up until 25, I think, then she was allowed to choose.
But it still wasn't OK.
She'd fallen in love with a dashing divorcee
called group captain Peter Townsend.
It's stunning.
Yeah, but then he ran off at the 14-year-old after.
So I think she dodged the bullet.
Nobody is perfect.
[LAUGHTER]
That is true.
It's not true.
It is true.
Well, they certainly met when she was 14.
When she was 14.
But then they ran off with you.
Yeah, but actually the boy is what I mean.
Pretty sure GCPT is dead now, isn't it?
OK.
Yeah, of course.
So he was-- when they met, she was maybe 16 or 17
Margaret, and he was, I think, about 35, 36.
Yeah.
So he was a little bit older.
He was divorced, which at the time was very scandalous.
And so she was told, you can either give everything up.
You can live as a commoner.
You give up this gilded life in exchange for the true love
that you've found or you can keep it all and not marry him.
And she said, I think I'll do the latter.
Thank you.
There was probably a bit of a CAD.
There is a fantastic theory.
And for anyone interested in Princess Margaret,
this Craig Brown book really is terrific.
Like, it's so interesting that she had evidence.
She kept evidence about her relationship with Peter
Townsend, because there's lots of rumour, myth, legend
about it.
It was only seen to be a relationship because they were together
with something and she picked a bit of fluff off his collar
or whatever.
And that was, oh my god, they're an item.
That was at the time.
Huge PDA.
Yeah.
Oh, just a different deal.
Anyway, but she has a license plate
or she had a license plate, which she got rid of eventually.
And her driver said, do you want to keep the old plates
from this car?
And she said, no, that's an incident from my past.
Best forgotten.
And it was PM6450.
All right.
Now, her driver, John Larkin, had a theory
that that 6450 is the 6th of April 1950.
And PM is either Princess Margaret or Peter Margaret.
And it's potentially, when she lost her virginity,
in license plate form.
Too good.
Counting Peter Townsend.
So that?
We've all got--
[LAUGHTER]
Oh.
That is.
But that's--
I've been getting plates made.
Yeah.
If you got them made in advance, you could see, too.
It's you.
Oh, yes.
That's a two-year-old idea.
I saw a random--
The thing about her is probably someone
to have met, known, and had to work with.
She was probably a nightmare to read about her.
She's almost the perfect caricature of the opposite of Queen
Elizabeth, who was very down the line, the rulebook.
She was more, I guess, like rock and roll.
She was hanging out with celebrities of the day.
There was all these rumors that she was sleeping with many
of them.
Pablo Picasso was rumoured to have an affair desperately
wanted to marry her.
Peter Sellers, when he was at the height
of the movie industry in Britain,
was supposedly having an affair with her.
And these stories came out that she
used to have a partner called Colin Tennant,
when they were in the bedroom, during sort of heavy petting,
as it was called.
I don't know if it's pre-licensed plate days.
She wouldn't allow him to call her by her name.
She would say, you'd have to refer to me by my royal title.
Your royal highness.
You had to refer to me as that.
And so she was just a total narcissist, as well,
with her power.
To me, I don't like any of these stories
of royal family being assholes.
And I don't know.
Yeah, I do.
I do, 'cause it's interesting reading.
As I say, I probably would have hated her
if I met her first.
It is fascinating hearing things,
such as, dinner didn't start until she arrived.
So you'd just be waiting there, maybe for hours,
because she didn't really keep
while the people's timetable.
So you might be sitting there while the food's gone cold.
And this is a party, so you mean, like she exactly.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
You were five minutes late to this recording this morning.
And the god.
Oh my god.
We had to wait for you.
Yeah, we did.
Are you saying I'm the Princess Margaret of this show?
Well, I haven't seen you have a registration plate
of your past.
I'm still waiting to get the maid.
I'm really excited.
[LAUGHTER]
But I feel-- I mean, I did find sympathy for her
in that book, because just the amount of comment
about her appearance and everything, right from the word go,
there were such trolls.
They were diarists.
They were very sort of camp and snippy diarists at the time.
But they did not let-- and I can't imagine an entire life
that sort of-- you're not really needed.
It's the life of an understudy.
And she never got to go on.
And she never got to really do anything.
And it was a weathering sort of a life.
She spent lots of her life living in a flat above or below.
She and her mum, the queen mum, as she became,
just lived in flats, one floor up and down from each other.
They mostly communicated by letter.
Mm.
That's amazing, isn't it?
They just would write these rather curt,
snippy notes to each other, and then a footman
would have to carry them upstairs or downstairs.
Like a text fight.
It was, yeah.
And it's mostly sort of-- I'm sorry I said that earlier.
Did the footman ever come down with, like, three dots?
[LAUGHTER]
Wonderful.
That's amazing.
And then she did get married and then divorced, right?
Yes, she married a camp society photographer
and an American workout.
She was, like, the first person in the royal family
to get divorced since Henry VIII or something
that's duplicated like that.
And then all of the current sort of queen's children
who all got divorced, they wouldn't have really
been able to do that without her.
Or at least it would have been a way bigger scandal.
But because she'd already done it,
it kind of meant that it was a little bit less of a scandal
when Prince Charles or King Charles got divorced
and all the others.
It's interesting.
I think you're right.
But she wasn't at all sympathetic to Diana, was she?
Oh, I see not.
No.
No, didn't like it.
Didn't like that divorce.
It's a real mess.
The book is a story of her being unpleasant to everyone
around her forever.
It's amazing.
But the thing about her birth is that I
think she was the last royal to go through a particular process.
So her parents were not going to become King and Queen at the time.
It was 1930.
So George VI was, as he will become,
was the younger brother of Edward who then abdicated.
So they were not expected to be really significant royals.
But even so, the home secretary had to be present.
Was that the one?
Yeah.
And this is so cool.
So her mum was the Duchess of York.
And the home secretary was a guy called J.R. Clinds at the time in 1930.
He wanted to go to Brighton on his summer holidays.
It was August.
And he was told, no, the Duchess of York is heavily pregnant.
You've got to stick to her like glue.
And the idea was that the home secretary, is this right?
The home secretary had to be there so that no one would swap the child.
Exactly.
It's exactly that.
It's amazing.
And I know.
So he wants to go to Brighton.
The Duchess of York says, I think I'm going to go to Glam's castle in Scotland.
Just the opposite of Brighton.
And someone said, well, just pop up on the train when she goes into Labour.
And he said, no, I can't do that.
I can't.
So he had to go up.
He went up on the 5th of August with his ceremonial secretary.
And they had to wait until the 21st of August, 16 days,
doing nothing in a nearby castle.
She wasn't in Labour for all that time, was she?
No, she was just...
She was just...
She was later as usual.
She was...
She began her life in conveniencing someone.
She carried on.
That's it, yeah.
Wow.
Do they not... they don't do that anymore, do they?
Oh, yeah.
The home secretary...
Yeah, yeah.
Shibana Mahmouda's is on speed dial.
I'm actually really impressed that you could remember the day
with the home secretary at the time of recording.
The place where she could let her hair down
and sort of wear a caftan and everything was a must-eat.
Then you can see that property.
You can rent that property for £35,000 a week, $1 a week.
And I've looked it up and it's really good.
Can we all pitch in?
What is it?
Is it like a Caribbean island or is that the one up in...
Can I just say that?
I'm not really up for pitch in for a Caribbean island
at the moment, because I think they're a little bit...
Tense it.
I mean, it's an extremely fancy...
Wow, is it?
Yeah.
And that was... did she build that up as in was that her guest?
Who made her did she arrive on something?
The guy you might remember.
Someone else owned it, but when she arrived at the island,
someone said, "Would you like a gift for your wedding
or maybe a plot of land?"
She said, "Yeah, plot of land, thank you very swiftly."
And then she built a house on that.
But this is where she met someone who I think she was involved with,
which is a chap called John Binden.
And I only mentioned him, because he was a really dubious figure.
He's just a sort of footnote here,
but he was a kind of English underworld figure.
Very dodgy.
He knew a lot of gangster...
I think it was a gangster in many ways,
living in the Caribbean.
Anyway, his party trick was that he could hang five,
half-paint beer tankards from his penis.
No hands.
Wow.
He must be popular.
I'll tell the first.
(laughter)
The most 1970s fact, I think you could possibly come up with.
Yeah.
The ones with handels.
Yeah, the ones with the handles.
Oh, really?
Half-paint, half-paint.
Oh, half-paint.
But with the handle, yeah.
Right.
And that was his party trick.
Yeah, it wasn't his day-to-day.
Right.
But you'd see it coming when you sort of...
Oh, he's brought...
He's brought the mugs.
He's brought the big guns.
(laughter)
This week, our Britain's Got Talent.
Anyway.
Yeah, I don't know what to say about that.
We could do that because like the ventriloquists on the radio,
no one could see them.
But for all the people at home, no, you could be doing that right now.
We're all doing it right now, even me.
Most of my stuff is about astrology.
Let's do it, let's do it.
Okay.
Have you heard of William Parran?
He was the astrologer to Henry VII and Henry VIII.
Because it used to be that you would have royal astrologers.
He prophesied that Henry VII's wife, Elizabeth of York, would live until she was 80 years
old and she died when she was 37.
He forecast that Henry VIII would have a happy marriage and long marriage to Catherine
of Oregon, and that he would sigh of many sons, and that he would become a devoted servant
to the Catholic church.
Right.
Oh.
It's tough big, isn't it?
It's totally...
Everything up.
Well, he got everything wrong.
But the reason basically that he did it is because in those days, as an astrologer to
the king, you basically had to say really good stuff.
It's like being an advisor to Donald Trump, you basically had to say how, "Oh, your hair's
looking great today, Donald."
Kind of thing.
And well tomorrow.
Because the two astrologers to Henry VI had been executed on grounds of treason when they
forecast that he would have a violent death.
Wow.
We couldn't forecast bad things otherwise you'd get.
Yeah.
There was someone even, Henry VIII's time, Elizabeth Barton, the holy maid of Kent.
Oh, yeah.
And she was predicting the king's death, wasn't even...
She wasn't like an official person, was she?
No, no, no.
She was just sort of wandering mystic, and I think she was executed for it.
Yeah.
I mean, it's a horrible thing to say something's going to happen to anyone with or without
the stars.
I mean, just too invasive, I thought.
It's true.
A mystic nag, though, like she...
She never said you're going to die to throw in the audience though.
In fact, she came up to the lake.
I don't know what the lottery numbers are this week, but I've got some bad news for Susan
and Kent.
Time for fact number three.
And that's my fact.
My fact this week is that when Caucasian tourists started visiting the mountain gorillas
of Congo, local guides went around wearing envelopes as masks, so as to help the gorillas get
used to the idea of white people.
Yeah.
This is all to do with gorilla tourism, which is a huge help to many countries.
It helps the gorillas themselves because it relaxes anyone wanting to poach them because
they'll make more money by protecting them, not like an egg, Andy.
This is the poach word.
Tell me.
What were you thought I was saying?
No.
Well, you need a very big pan to poke the gorilla.
Sorry, you gave me a look as I said the word poach, and I thought, "Hey, things, I mean eggs."
I'm these readers of the newspaper going, "Why am I arresting all these people and just
making eggs?"
I gave you a look down, because you said it relaxes the people who would otherwise poach
the gorillas.
I just thought that was a funny way of putting it.
I saw a video, which had this story in it.
And it was at the Cajuzzi Biega National Park in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
And the gorillas that they have there are the largest gorillas in the world, the Eastern
lowland gorilla.
So basically, when gorilla tourism happens, a lot of white people start arriving from overseas.
And largely, the gorillas there haven't seen white people before.
So there's this one instance where the locals got all these envelopes and they cut holes
for eyes, two little nostrils in the mouth, and put a little bit of rope and tied it up.
And they spent two or three times going back to meet the gorilla because every time they
kept running away, it was very scared, and eventually it got used to the look.
And they thought, "We think we've got this right."
So they asked the local authorities to provide a white man to test it out on.
And so he came along and he didn't run away.
And then they're like, "Great, the gorilla's ready."
Oh, I thought, like, he would have run away until he put a little stamp on the top of
his head.
Yeah.
It's just a thing that happens because gorilla tourism, from Europeans, from people coming
over from American Canada, provide huge amounts of money for a lot of different countries
and a lot of local areas.
Yeah.
It was controversial, wasn't it?
But at first, because obviously the dream is for the gorillas to be living without human,
without any tourism, really.
But as you say, it brings in so much money.
And that money also gets, they've innovated.
So it's definitely put back into the local community.
So everyone who lives nearby is also on board, and that's helping.
Yeah.
With living standards there, just it's helping build up those communities.
When places like Rwanda where, you know, you had these huge outbreaks, or gorillas were
almost completely made extinct off the back of it, or were certainly heading that way.
So anyone who wanted to protect them was risking their life, but they weren't really being
paid for it.
And that's what this is now providing.
And so yeah, it's, I've never done it myself.
I've never gone, Nina, just purely because of your connection to monkey.
Have you ever thought to do something like that?
Yeah.
Well, I don't think I'd need more than an envelope on my face to relax a gorilla.
I think, if I met a gorilla, I'd send out so many signals to it to kill me.
I'd just then put myself in that thing.
It would all be fear and need, and the air would be electric with this sort of nose
dive.
And that's what you're doing mentally.
I love gorillas.
I love orangutans.
I love them.
I want them to be safe.
But I can't even imagine that a gorilla particularly cares about a face or the color of face.
I feel like they would size you up, you'll wait your, you know, your endability.
That's about it.
There are a lot of those eye contact, and there's...
These are eye contact, yeah.
I feel the important thing if you're near a gorilla, and if you're listening to your
near a gorilla right now, this might save your life, is just go low status.
Don't go in, you know, big swinging dicks, thinking you're all that, just just look at the
brain.
No pine glasses.
Yeah.
Just, he died showing his poverty trick.
But is it like, because there's quite a lot of different animals that, half of them, it seems,
you have to, like, make yourself big and scary and the other half, you have to either
run away or make yourself very small and...
Absolutely.
Don't run away, because they can run at 25 miles an hour.
Don't make yourself big and scary.
Don't make eye contact, and they might sort of passively, aggressively brush past you in
that way of, you know, they're a commuter who's like, "Did you spill my pine?"
A little bit, and you just sort of say, "Okay, fair enough, that's on me."
Everything.
Yeah.
And if they're charging at you, don't do anything.
Don't run away.
And most charges are a bluff.
If anything, make yourself a bit smaller, go on the ground slightly, so it doesn't look
like it's being intimidated by your size either.
There's this whole sort of FAQ page on the Varunga National Park, which is in Congo, and
it tells you all these details.
So if it does get to you and it's angry and you're down on the ground, let it attack you.
It says, "The attack may include severe biting and pounding or tearing with the gorilla's
hands."
It will eventually stop if it sees you as not a threat.
It might then just fold you into its arms and just sit with you, let it do that.
Don't try and take its arm off, because it's arm, don't try and take its arm off.
Don't try and lift it.
It's like, you know, if you're in the cinema, and you're on your first date, and they put
their arm around you, and you take it off them, they say, "Don't do that."
Don't do that.
The gorilla remains quiet and passive until it loses interest and goes, "It has all
of this on its website," and right underneath all of this there's a button that says, "Book
online now."
Wow.
Diane Fossy, by the way, who was one of the great primate professionals.
I don't know where you were.
Like a Jane Goodall?
Yeah, her and Jane Goodall, there was one other as well.
The three of them roughly at the same time, under the sort of mentorship of a man called
Lewis Leakey, all went out into different bits of the world and studied primates, and
she was not a fan of this gorilla tourism, but I think it was different then.
We didn't know quite enough.
We didn't know what good it does for them now.
And the money wasn't going into local areas as well.
Exactly.
We didn't even know they existed until like the mid-19th century.
Right.
Yeah.
That's incredible.
And the West, obviously, like in Europe.
So there was an American missionary called Dr. Thomas Savage, quite good name for someone
who likes to find gorillas, but he went to Congo in 1847 and managed to be told by the
locals were to see those gorillas, and he brought back some bones and stuff and then
brought them to scientists in Europe, and they then described gorillas for the first time.
And then they became like this big sort of thing of everyone loved gorillas.
So you had gorilla ballets in London and really in two twos.
Oh, no, sorry.
No, it was people.
It wasn't actual gorillas.
Oh, thank you.
It was like...
Probably the bare-bait thing.
Yeah, no, no, no.
You costume for that show is very, very high-risk job.
It just became fashionable to do, like, gorilla theme things.
This is the curtain opens and the costume designers sat there with a gorilla, the ballerina
who normally gets thrown a couple of feet in the air just goes right through the ceiling.
No, there was also a gorilla quadril for piano that was very popular.
The sheet music was very popular.
So yeah, it became like a little bit of a mean.
That's great.
That's a micromania, which always happens whenever there's anything new.
The really impressive people who work in these two national parks where you get mounting
gorillas, which is one of the rarest kinds, that there are lots of other kinds of gorillas,
but the mountain ones are the rarest.
The really impressive people are the vets who are patching them up after they've had fights
with other gorillas.
Wow.
So they go in to the gorillas territory every day in small teams, they're checking their
health and they're stitching up the gorilla-inflicted wounds and you can't put a plaster cast on them
if they've got a fracture.
No.
Or they do put cast on, sorry, but it's not plaster because they just rip it off.
So you have to put on a fiberglass one and then paint it to match their fur.
Wow.
Paint the cast side.
It's so interesting.
It's amazing.
It's really hard work.
Did they fight each other a lot?
I think a reasonable amount.
Yeah.
Because you get male groups, don't you?
You get family groups and then you get all male groups.
Oh, yeah.
And I think there's a bit of a sort of lad pad area and then they occasionally leave the
lad pad and try and found a family and things like this.
Yeah.
As do we.
Yeah, these doctors, by the way, Andy, they're amazing because not only have they been patching
them up and supposedly this has been responsible for the survival rates are going much higher
the fact that they've got dedicated doctors now.
But also there'd been a lot of mysterious gorilla deaths that they don't understand.
So if a gorilla dies, it kind of dies on its own and then by the time anyone finds
it, it's half gone, the body's disintegrated somewhat and they can't really work out what
it is.
Doctors have managed to get to gorillas that have recently died and worked out that one
of the biggest killers is ventriloquists, ventriloquists, no, but it is vent.
It is ventilation because it's humans passing on the common cold and flu and they're really
susceptible.
So people tourist when they go there and they probably go, God, I'm going to just hide
the fact that I'm feeling a bit ill so that I can see the gorillas.
They're passing on really dangerous diseases.
I think you had to wear face masks.
Didn't you even before COVID?
It was one of the places that you would see people in Asia wearing them and you would see
people on safari wearing them.
Yeah, exactly.
I think you have to stay several seven or ten meters away from the gorillas now because
just, you know, don't give them a cold.
Yeah.
That's the reason.
Yeah, then I'm not going to stand right next to a gorilla.
No, no, I wouldn't, I totally wouldn't, I totally wouldn't, I just wouldn't.
Yeah.
But take their arm off but make sure that you wash it for ten seconds and I'll see you in
a happy birthday.
I remember there was this thing about they gave you like glasses which it looked like your
eyes were looking in a different direction because of the eye contact thing.
Oh, cool.
Really?
Yeah.
You could print them out and it'd be a tiny hole in them so you could see the gorillas
but the gorilla would think you weren't looking directly at them.
You'd be careful which way you turn your head and accidentally you sent it out.
Yeah, that's true.
You're very good at baby gorillas, you know, I'm almost there.
Yeah, exactly.
You're there, right at the one on the left, yeah.
And there was also a thing in Toronto Zoo where they asked visitors to stop showing gorillas
videos on their phones and they, the people in the zoo just said we'd rather you didn't
do that.
So we went to the monkey to the zoo once and they really did react like captains or little
ones.
They were little ones and they went jumping around.
They went crazy and it was, yeah, it was really strange.
You had your hand up one of their friends' ass like that's not going to, are we all going
to get this treatment?
Yeah.
They really didn't like my material.
Okay, it's time for our final fact of the show.
So that is Andy.
My fact is the greatest Shakespeare editor of all time is also the worst Shakespeare editor
of all time.
This is about a guy called John Payne Collier, who was an academic in the 19th century
and a really well-known Shakespeare scholar.
And the only thing you need to know about this is that basically there's no original Shakespeare
manuscript.
So when they say like first folios, what are they?
The first folio is the first collection of plays.
We have a few that were printed in what's called Quarto, which is where you fold the sheet
of paper twice.
It's sort of a cheap early edition.
We have a few first quarter.
Quarto.
We don't have him actually writes now exactly.
Exactly.
We've got no manuscript.
And so the search has always been to find the most original possible version of Shakespeare's
plays.
And most plays that you get these days are a combination of like Quarto's or first or
second folios, the folios are the collections where they were first bound up, right?
So you need to find something as early as possible to get more authentic Shakespeare.
That's the thing.
And so this scholar, John Payne Collier, 19th century, he found a book in Great Newport
Street in London and it was a copy of the second folio, which was printed less than 20 years
after Shakespeare's death, right?
So relatively contemporaneous.
And he noticed, when he properly looked at it, that there were 20,000 handwritten corrections
in the margins of this text, there were extra bits, there were observations.
So this was extraordinary because this would make the book he had found the most authoritative
version in existence of Shakespeare's work.
This would make it super significant.
Cool.
Yeah.
Really exciting.
He had moved Shakespeare studies forward massively and he'd faked it all.
Really?
Yeah.
That's why he's the worst of all time.
There were his annotations.
And people noticed in there that the handwriting looks suspiciously similar to his actual handwriting.
So his own handwriting exists somewhere, does it?
I think we've got his Shakespeare signature.
We've got like six signatures, but that's about it.
But he spells the word Shakespeare, the surname Shakespeare, different every single time.
Yeah.
So this John Pincolier had become the talk of the town.
It was a huge deal.
This mysterious figure, the old corrector who had made these 20,000 annotations, it was
all just complete nonsense.
Why did he do it Andy?
I don't know.
Why does anyone forge things like professional glory?
As you say, he was already at the top of the game.
He was.
He was the guy.
So to do that was maybe for the lulls.
It was for the lulls.
This book was very successful financially when he printed, you know, his my version of the
volume.
So it did make him a lot of money at first.
And I guess he weirdly was collaborating with Shakespeare because he was suggesting edits
to certain lines and rewrites, wasn't he?
Which would have been taken up as the new version, possibly, or at least certain texts.
I should say this all came from a fantastic financial times article about it.
It was really, really.
What was the period, Andy?
This was the mid-19th century that he was.
Okay, so Shakespeare at this stage is becoming like, his dad, his plays are becoming a big deal,
right?
Yeah, they had a weird, they went up and down, didn't they?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But no, there's big interest at the time and check, for sure, yeah, yeah.
I'm really curious what these notes were that he had a thousand and twenty thousand.
Twenty, that's a lot of improvements he wanted to make.
And were there were they alternative line ratings or what were they?
I think some of them were, yeah, and others were just skipping or amendments or, I mean,
it was, I think, a bit of everything.
There was a lot of changes.
Yeah.
But it's, he's putting it on a very old manuscript as well, like on top of anything else.
That's, that's a great thing.
Yes, that's a great thing.
Yeah, this, this very important, yeah, it was old, presumably, yeah, yeah, because they,
I think they worked out as the ink that he had used clearly was not ink that was from
the time he was new ink.
Like it went to that kind of forensic level.
Oh, right.
He really hadn't thought it through.
He just, we probably just sort of get away with this.
I mean, yeah.
Yeah.
There were quite a lot of people who are making changes around that time and even before that
time when they saw Bodler is the famous one like Bodlerizing means to sort of change something
because you make it less rude, I suppose.
But it wasn't just him Alexander Pope, who is a friend of the podcast.
He was changing Shakespeare and rewriting bits that he thought weren't good enough and
he thought I could make it better.
Lewis Carroll, he made some version of Shakespeare plays where he cut out all the obscene bits.
Wow.
So it was like quite a trend of people thinking that this is very low brow, we're going to
remove that stuff.
And some people thought that the reason that Shakespeare put those root bits in was just
because the audience liked it.
And really, if he, if Shakespeare had his way, he would have made it all very high brow.
Oh, that's how I feel.
But actually, I always think about when it comes to the funny bits in Shakespeare which
aren't always very funny and the fool is often the real low point, that that's what that guy
did.
The guy who did it first, that's what he did.
It was his bit and he knew how to make that funny and then it's almost like doing somebody
else's material.
I don't know if that's true, but I mean that's what it feels like.
I know you mean because Shakespeare would have had his favourite artist.
I would have had a real funny guy who was hilarious with the skull or whatever, but yeah.
And 400 years of Michael McIntyre routine won't have the same punch that it does today.
Untruth.
I can imagine Dad getting some old Michael McIntyre scripts and just rewriting them a little
bit.
Man drawer.
And Neham Tate was another one in the 17th century.
This is only about 60 years after Shakespeare died, rewrote King Lear to make both the King
and Cordelia survive, which spoil it, they don't in the original.
For 150 years the character of the fool who's a big deal in King Lear and he's not very funny
but he's very integral to the plot, you know, making King Lear realise he's been mad,
you know, the fool didn't exist in the play for 150 years, stay and take wrote him out.
And this is why people need original Shakespeare's is because it's very hard to tell what is
in the original text if you're going off even something slightly later.
Yes.
Right.
And this is the Royal Shakespeare Company, which you were part of Nina.
I was.
I was there for years.
That's been a hugely important thing in getting Shakespeare back onto the stages in the West
End and Stratford upon Avan has become the place that people now go to see, I mean, that's
where you were based.
Where are you?
That's where I was based.
Yeah, for those years.
What did you start as a spear carrier and then work your way up?
I never managed to work my way up.
I did play Audrey in, as you like it, made a lot of it, I think, it's not many lines.
And I was the cursors and in comedy verus.
And it was really, they worked you very hard.
You never had to day off and you often had to go to voice coach or you were just working
all the time.
But I didn't have very much to do on stage and that did make me mischievous and it did make
me want to do something more.
And that's when I became ventriloquist, actually.
Wow.
Yeah.
Interestingly, William Shakespeare was an amateur ventriloquist.
We'll see.
Yeah.
He could throw his voice behind an arous.
That's a specific Hamlet-based joke.
James, you can plug a laugh in there, can't you?
I can try.
Thanks.
It'll be hard to find a realistic one for that joke.
No, because Polonius is hiding behind the curtain and now it says Arat and Stabson, well,
the way you want me acted, I thought you didn't.
I didn't know Aras.
It's a curse.
I saw his two hack.
I was too obvious.
Mac and Tire wouldn't have done it.
I'd do that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
He was a ventriloquist.
Well, not really.
Vent Haven Museum, the one that houses all of the dummies, was founded by William Shakespeare
Berger.
Oh.
Yeah.
That's also something you could buy in Strapford upon.
How would you like your burger?
I love it.
As you like it.
Super.
Hi guys.
And also the list of the RSC, the Royal Shakespeare Company, it's pretty amazing, the
alumni that you're part of Nina, I don't know who was in your year, but obviously people
like Ian McKellen and Judy Dench and Brian Blessed, you know, all these people were part of
it.
David Tennant.
You had Tennant.
The Tennant was, yes, he was in comedy of Aras with me, with his cut as an.
Because it's very serious.
Yeah.
They take it very seriously.
Did you ever get to do any more fun productions?
Did you ever get to do something like Bouncy Castle Hamlet or whatever it might be?
As fun as it got was a five hour play called Back to Methuselab, George Bernard Shaw.
That was, I remember the light entertainment, I was nude in that and I got birthed from an
egg.
Oh, poached or a very poached egg.
You will, I think Nina know about this story, there was a very big hoax that was pulled off
for the RSC.
That's a good one.
Yeah, whereby it became, for a moment, the Royal Dickens company, as opposed to Shakespeare.
Do you want to tell this story, if you know, you might know it.
The best, I mean, the best I can remember, Ken Campbell, who was the guy who sent me on
the ventriloquist path, he wrote letters with a fake, headed note paper from the Royal
Jokes, the company, saying that we are now moving on to Dickens, moving on from the
bar, and he wrote to all the members of the Royal Shakespeare company, and actors offering
them roles in Dickens plays, and every single letter he signed love, Trev, as Trevenun.
Trevenun was the autistic director at the time, and I think I'm right in saying that he was
away overseas on holiday at the time, so he had no, I think, I'm right, and he would have
been in contact because it's not like you're on your emails, because this must have been
a while ago.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So he came back to all this chaos, and no one knew who did it, and finally, Ken revealed
that he'd done it to Newsnight, I think it was, who finally tracked down that it was him,
but yeah.
Yeah, and they gave him criminal lighting, he said, as he was, he got hoaxes, blues after
he posted all these letters, because nobody answered for a very long time, and really seemed
like anything was going to happen.
Normally, if you write to an actor saying I'm offering you work, you'd get a reply by
return of post, I'd like to have seen this more of a different society.
Yeah.
I think the weirdest production I've ever seen was in Conexburg Castle in Denmark.
When we were on tour in Denmark, and the castle is the original Elsinol, or it's the one that
inspired Elsinol, I think it's the one, and they were doing kind of walking hamlet around
the place.
So, you'd see one scene in their room, and then you'd wander off, and you'd see another
scene happening in this room, and these actors are kind of running up between each object.
But there were some tourists who did not really respect the boundary between art and audience,
and there were some who were just wandering up to hamlet in the middle of quite an emotional
scene, just to have their picture taken next to him.
Oh, he's trying to have his epic final sword fight with Lerties, and there's just an elderly
Chinese lady standing literally next to him, touching him, just grinning for the camera
in front of him.
I did a Macbeth one, which was similar to that.
But during the scene in Glam's Castle, Princess Margaret was born.
Beautiful.
We mentioned earlier about Shakespeare's name, and we have a few versions of his signature.
Two of those signatures are on his marriage license, and his marriage bond.
But on those two documents, the name of the woman is different.
So on his marriage license, it says that he was married to Anne Whetaly, W-H-A-T-E-L-E-Y,
and then his marriage bond says he was married to Anne Halfaway, and we don't know why.
It could be.
What most people think is probably it was just a mistake, and they just misheard it, or in
those days spelling was different, and so these, maybe she was called something in between
those two.
But there's another version, which is basically he was going to marry this person called
Anne Whetaly, and then he changes his mind and married Anne Halfaway instead.
Is that amazing, though?
It's incredible.
It's so bizarre.
It's amazing how little we know about him.
I know it's not when you really dig into how much we knew about people, and it's often
said we know way more about him than, but we don't know enough to know that he definitely
wrote the plays according to a lot of debate.
Like, what is that sentence?
We don't know enough to know that he wrote the plays before we go.
But we can't conclusively, it's a big debate, isn't it, within, like you would think for
someone we knew so much about.
It's not a serious debate, though.
Well, Oxford University Press recently gave a co-credit to who was it, one of the major
other playwrights.
Macintosh.
Macbeth.
It's with it, isn't it, Macbeth.
Macbeth's going on and on about, you know, getting onto a plane, and the awkward etiquette.
Yeah.
Really funny.
Also, a lot of his stories are basically ripped off from other stories, right?
Yeah.
So, like Romeo and Juliet is based on a story by William Painter, we're pretty sure because
it's pretty much the same story.
That was based on a poem by Arthur Brock, which was inspired by a collection of stories
by Pierre Boistau, which was in turn inspired by a novella by Matthew Bandello, who was inspired
by a story by Luigi Departeau, so it's like a story as old of time of two Star Cross
lovers, both cocking it at the end.
That's my, that's my lurch at the end, spoiler alert, sorry.
You're wasted as a blur brighter for the back of books.
Okay, that's it.
That is all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening.
If you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we have said over
the course of this podcast, we can all be found online.
I'm on @Sribeland on Instagram, James.
My Instagram is nosy thing is James Harkin, Andy.
At Android 100.
And Nina.
The Nina Conti.
The Nina Conti, yeah.
So, follow that because you post up a lot of information about things that are upcoming
including the fact that now available on Prime is your feature length movie that you
co-wrote, you star in, that you're directed.
Yes, called Sunlight.
And I'm very excited that that's getting out in the world.
It's been seven years in making and it's my proudest thing to date.
Yeah, James has watched it and says he liked it.
James has never said he liked anything to anyone in this room outside of that situation.
Genuinely, if I like it, I would have pretended that I'd never say it.
But I did.
I loved it.
I thought it was brilliant.
So good.
Well, that's available now if you have Amazon Prime.
Yeah.
There's a Prime 8 more like.
Yes.
It is more like.
I have no comments about that joke.
Hey, listen, if you want to get to us as a group, though, podcast@QI.com, send all of
your emails there because Andy goes through them all and he cherry picks the best ones for
two separate places.
We have Little Fish, which is our Monday show where he takes all the best facts that you
guys have sent in and we spend a whole episode going through all of those.
You can listen to those apps every Monday.
And then the other half are the correspondence that we take to drop us a line, which is our
audience feedback show.
And if you want to get access to that, you just need to go and join Club Fish, which
is part of Patreon.
So patreon.com/clubfish, you'll find lots of different tiers though.
There's lots of extra bonuses.
It's a really fun place.
So do check it out.
Otherwise, come back here next week because we've got another episode, just a quick thank
you as ever to Leigh Lee and Ethan Ruperallia, as well as the bigger fish buster team here
at the QI offices.
And we'll see you again next week.
Good luck.
(upbeat music)